Holiday hackathon winners blog (#195)
xataio/mdx-blog: zero-downtime-schema-migrations-postgresql.mdx

[Sqitch](https://sqitch.org/) is interesting because it’s positioned itself as a standalone change management system. It is unopinionated about your application framework, database engine or development environment. Unlike liquibase or flyway, there is no need to number or name your migrations a certain way. Sqitch handles this for you. It’s a unique solution that aims to make it easy to integrate into your existing environment.

[Atlas](https://atlasgo.io/) and [Bytebase](https://bytebase.com/) are very much the new kids on the block and lean into developer experience and database as code. Both have open source and cloud offerings and aim to do much more than schema migrations, supporting multiple databases.

Last but not least is [Reshape](https://github.com/fabianlindfors/reshape). This is a relatively new open source tool that provides a novel way for handling schema migrations. Though unlike these other tools, it doesn’t support multiple databases. The tool is only for Postgres
This means it can take advantage of capabilities specific to Postgres moreso than other solutions. Reshape inspired the next tools we'll dive into, pgroll.

> ## Introducing pgroll, a tool that provides zero-downtime, reversible schema migrations for Postgres

Reviewer: I think make shorter - I don't think it will mess with SEO, but it looks long rendered

---
title: 'How to perform Postgres schema changes in production with zero downtime'

> description: "Schema migrations are a pain. In this workshop we'll review the problem space and tools available to make reversible schema changes in production with zero downtime."

Reviewer: maybe this description should be shorter

```suggestion
description: "Schema migrations are a pain.  Let's review the problem space and tools available to make reversible schema changes in production with zero downtime."
```
